---
layout: single
title: "3.0 GENERAL RULES"
---

# 3.0 GENERAL RULES

## 3.0A. Preliminary rule

### 3.0A1. Scope
The rules in this chapter may be used to describe textual records that constitute a fonds or a part thereof as instructed in 1.0A1. Textual records are defined as written records, whether handwritten, typescript, published [^1], or generated by any other means, which are accessible to the naked eye without the aid of a machine.

For multiple media fonds, see chapter 2. For textual records in electronic form, see chapter 9. For textual records on microform, see chapter 10.

### 3.0A2. Multilevel description
For instructions on the use of multilevel description for preparing descriptions of a fonds and its parts, see 1.0A2.

## 3.0B. Sources of information

### 3.0B1. Chief source of information. 
The chief sources of information for textual records are as follows [^2]:
1. for a fonds, all of the material in the fonds;
2. for a series, all of the material in the series;
3. for a file, all of the material in the file, including the file folder(s) or other container;
4. for an item, prefer in this order:
	1. information found on the title page, caption or colophon (if any of these exist);
	2. the item itself.

### 3.0B2. Prescribed source of information
The prescribed source(s) of information for each area of description of textual records is set out below. Enclose information taken from outside the prescribed source(s) in square brackets, unless otherwise instructed in specific rules.

| AREA | PRESCRIBED SOURCES OF INFORMATION |
| --- | --- |
| Title and statement of responsibility | Chief source of information
| Edition | Chief source of information |
| Date(s) of creation, including publication, distribution, etc. | Chief source of information |
| Physical description | Any source |
| Publisher's series | Chief source of information |
| Archival description | Any source |
| Note(s) | Any source |
| Standard number | Any source |

## 3.0C. Punctuation
For the punctuation of the description as a whole, see 1.0C.
For the prescribed punctuation of elements, see the following rules.

## 3.0D. Levels of detail in the description
See 1.0D.

## 3.0E. Language and script of the description
See 1.0E.

## 3.0F. Inaccuracies
See 1.0F.

[^1]: If published documents are to be described as part of a fonds, the rules in this chapter apply. If they are to be described bibliographically see AACR2R, Chapter 2.

[^2]: For all levels of description other than the item (fonds, series, file) the chief source of information for a sub-division is the same as the chief source for that level.

**3.0G. Accents and other diacritical marks**
See 1.0G.
